Filtering growth, part two:  Compound filters

More filtering
  When I finished with the first part of improving the filtering, I was able to create some useful changes for Swept to find in our main work product, but some possibilities I saw weren't practical until there was more power in the filtering.

  There are perceptions that are extremely clear when you face the actual problem directly in your hands that aren't foreseen, considering the problem at a distance.  In my case, it was an entirely natural repercussion of one of the driving forces behind Swept in the first place:  Projects get so large that we need the leverage of automation.
  I added an enhancement to our project's Swept library, started coding, and realize that this issue would show up on at least 300 files more than actually had the problem.  I imagined all the practice that would give me at thinking of Swept as an annoyance to ignore, and knew the code couldn't pause there.  We had to take further steps immediately.
  


  more possibilities with more power in the filtering, so that was  I set out to make that happen.
  The forms of filtering were largely what I needed, the shortcoming was in refining the change's targeting, by being able to combine several clauses of filtering into a single set of criteria.  This lead smoothly to the classic logical operators, and some form of grouping notation.

Logical expression notation
  I waited to implement until I'd come up with a suitable developer notation.
  The natural ways to represent compound logical expressions in XML are awful.
  Other representations lead to writing an expression parser from the ground up.
  So, I struggled to find an unnatural way to represent expressions in XML--and succeeded.  :D

Repercussions
  



###
  
  Footnote:  Several ways filtering could grow

  *  FileContentPattern
  *  More than one filter of each type
  *  Now that NamePattern exists, the Language and Subpath could be subsumed within it.
  *  Logical combinations of patterns: 
        FileContent includes 'Using Windows.Forms'
        and not Subpath in "GUI\"

---
